# CS-305
Repository for Software Security CS 305


    The client the vulnerability Assessment Report was intended for is Artemis Financial. Artemis Financial is a finanacial consulting firm that develops individual retirement, savings, investment, and insurance plans for their clients. Artemis Financial wants to modernize their systems by implementing the most current and effective software security measures for their system. The area within the Vulnerability Assessment Report that I did well was the initial assessment and review of Artemis Financial's needs and potential security threats and attacks that their software may encounter. This portion of the assessment was particularly important to address in a detailed manner due to its importance in idenitfying potential threats the client and their users may encounter. These threats help emphasize the importance of secure coding. Secure coding is crucial in helping avoid potential threats from the beginning by implementing basic practices in order to sure up vulnerable areas of the code. By ensuring software is secure through secure coding practices, Artemis Financial can gain the trust of current or potential users by providing a secure application that provides protection of their customers' sensitive data.
    The area of the VAR that presented the most challenges was the review of the Vulnerability Flow Diagram and assessing the categories within to identify vulnerabilities within the software and apply it to a category. This area was difficult in terms of my lack of experience in software security. This portion of the assessment was made very helpful due to this challenge as well. It helped me understand the categories within the diagram and understand them in a more detailed manner. Areas that presented themselves to be challenging seemed to present themselves as the most helpful in the end as well. By not being comfortable in these areas, it forced me to dig in deeper to the challenge to better understand it in order to properly complete the assessment. 
    In order to add layers of security, I first reviewed the potential threats I identified in the first portion of the assessment. After this review, I then looked in to potential mitigations to address the threats directly. The threats ranged from updating of software versions to include the latest patches and plugins, using more secure accessor methods to ensure data not being stored within the URL, ensuring proper input validation techniques are secure of leaking data or allowing potential threatening information being accepted as proper input, and implementing limitations of input validation to secure up inputs.  All mitigation of the threats presented can be applied to later mitigations in in projects or jobs. By iterating through the software and using proper mitigation techniques in order to identify potential vulnerabilties will be necessary for future use. 
    In order to check secure software mitigation was successful, I ran the code multiple times and tested cases on it in order to look for any bugs. The tests were base level to ensure syntax and any loops or iterations were not infinite. After this basic level testing, I ran an updated vulnerability report in order to address any potential vulnerabilties that may have been introduced. The vulnerability report did not reveal any new vulnerabilties to the software. 
    Using the NVD database to assess the CVE codes presented in the vulnerability test was extremely useful in better understanding vulnerabilties listed and the potential threats they may present. Utilzing the OWASP dependency check was another useful tool to identify potential threats. Utilizing resources through credible books, journals or websites helped in breaking down particular areas within the assessment to help me better understand a topic or procedure. 
    This project was my first attempt at a Vulnerbaility assessment. I believe the entire project is worthy of displaying to a potential employer. With the right explanation, the content of the project demonstrates my base-level understanding of how to properly do a Vulnerability Assessment Report. This can help an employer see that I have a grasp of the concept and can be trusted to provide a detailed, informative, professional document if asked to do so. 
